Apply auto-flattening to `subobjects: auto` (#112092)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/mapping/params/subobjects.asciidoc

<1> The entire mapping is configured to not support objects.
<2> The document does not support objects

Setting `subobjects: false` disallows the definition of <<object,`object`>> and <<object,`nested`>> sub-fields, which

> can be too restrictive in cases where it's desirable to have nested objects or sub-objects with specific behavior

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can be too restrictive in cases where it's desirable to have <<nested,`nested`>> objects or sub-objects with specific behavior
```

(e.g. with `enabled:false`). In this case, it's possible to set `subobjects: auto`, so subobjects are allowed to be

> statically defined in the mapping, while dynamically-defined fields do not introduce intermediate objects. For instance:

Reviewer: A nuance that's missing here is that statically defined mappers are also auto-flattened if possible.

Author: I think this is covered in the section below?

Reviewer: It is, I was just thinking it may be confusing as it seems to not be consistent with what's stated below. Both statically and dynamically defined fields are auto-flattened unless conditions apply where auto-flattening isn't possible. I think these condition may even apply to dynamically added fields, for example if a dynamic template defines an object with `enabled:false`. (it may be worth adding a test for this)

With a dynamic template like this
```json
{
  "mappings": {
    "subobjects": "auto",
    "dynamic_templates": [
      {
        "foo_object": {
          "match": "foo",
          "mapping": {
            "type": "object",
            "enabled": false
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
``` 

Adding a field `foo.bar` should create a `foo` object, whereas adding a field `bar.baz` should not.

Author: Good point, added an explicit reference to dynamic templates and a yaml test to verify this example works.

==== Auto-flattening object mappings

It is generally recommended to define the properties of an object that is configured with `subobjects: false` or
`subobjects: auto` with dotted field names (as shown in the first example). However, it is also possible to define
these properties as sub-objects in the mappings. In that case, the mapping will be automatically flattened before
it is stored. This makes it easier to re-use existing mappings without having to re-write them.

Note that auto-flattening will not work if any of the following <<mapping-params, mapping parameters>> are set
on object mappings that are defined under an object configured with `subobjects: false` or `subobjects: auto`:

* The <<enabled, `enabled`>> mapping parameter is `false`.
* The <<dynamic, `dynamic`>> mapping parameter contradicts the implicit or explicit value of the parent.
For example, when `dynamic` is set to `false` in the root of the mapping, object mappers that set `dynamic` to `true`
can't be auto-flattened.
* The <<subobjects, `subobjects`>> mapping parameter is set to `auto` or `true` explicitly.

If such a sub-object is detected, the behavior depends on the `subobjects` value:

> * `subobjects: false` is not compatible, so a mapping error is returned during mapping creation or indexing.

Author: Good point, it shouldn't be possible to dynamically add such objects. Updated.

<1> The entire mapping is configured to not support objects.
<2> The document does not support objects

Setting `subobjects: false` disallows the definition of <<object,`object`>> and <<object,`nested`>> sub-fields, which
can be too restrictive in cases where it's desirable to have <<nested,`nested`>> objects or sub-objects with specific

> behavior (e.g. with `enabled:false`). In this case, it's possible to set `subobjects: auto`, so subobjects are allowed
> to be pre-defined in the mapping (including in dynamic templates), while dynamically-defined fields do not introduce
> intermediate objects. For instance:

Reviewer: Just a suggestion here but I think we can simplify and not mention differences between statically defined mappings and dynamic mappings, as there isn't really a difference.

```suggestion
behavior (e.g. with `enabled:false`). In this case, it's possible to set `subobjects: auto`, which auto-flattens <insert anchor to the auto-flattening paragraph> whenever possible and falls back to creating an object mapper otherwise (instead of rejecting the mapping as `subobjects: false` does). For instance:
```

              "type" : "long"
            },
            "time.max" : {
              "type" : "long"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------

<1> The `metrics` field can only hold statically defined objects, namely `inner` and `nested`.
<2> Sample document holding flat paths
<3> Sample document holding an object (configured with sub-objects) and its leaf sub-fields
<4> The resulting mapping where dots in field names (`time.min`, `time_max`), as well as the
statically-defined sub-objects `inner` and `nested`, were preserved

The `subobjects` setting for existing fields and the top-level mapping definition cannot be updated.

[[auto-flattening]]
==== Auto-flattening object mappings

It is generally recommended to define the properties of an object that is configured with `subobjects: false` or
`subobjects: auto` with dotted field names (as shown in the first example). However, it is also possible to define
these properties as sub-objects in the mappings. In that case, the mapping will be automatically flattened before
it is stored. This makes it easier to re-use existing mappings without having to re-write them.

> Note that auto-flattening will not work if any of the following <<mapping-params, mapping parameters>> are set

Author: Changed to `does not apply`.
